documention on installation and usage of database k8s operator (#4379)
ovh/docs: pages/platform/databases/databases_12_operator/guide.en-gb.md

---

> title: Getting started with database kubernetes opdrator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Getting started with Kubernetes database operator
```

> excerpt: Find out how to install and use the kubernetes database operator 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
excerpt: Find out how to install and use the Kubernetes database operator 
```

slug: database-operator
section: General guides
order: 120
updated: 2023-05-02
---

**Last updated May 2<sup>nd</sup>, 2023**

## Objective

The kubernetes database operator allow you to automaticaly authorize your Kubernetes cluster IP on your OVHcloud cloud databases service.

**This guide explains how to install and use the database operator in order to authorize the Kubernetes IP on your service**

## Requirements

- Access to the [OVHcloud API](https://api.ovh.com/) (create your credentials by consulting [this guide](https://docs.ovh.com/gb/en/api/first-steps-with-ovh-api/))

> - A [Public Cloud project](https://www.ovhcloud.com/en-gb/public-cloud/) in your OVHcloud account

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A [Public Cloud project](https://docs.ovh.com/gb/en/public-cloud/create_a_public_cloud_project/) in your OVHcloud account
```

> ## Ovh Credentials

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Getting your OVHcloud API tokens information
```

> The operator needs a secret that contains the credentials to call Ovhcloud api. Go to https://api.ovh.com/createToken/ to generate the credentials namely:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Kubernetes operator needs to be configured with a set of credentials:
```

> - application key

Reviewer: ```suggestion

* an `application_key`
```

> - application secret

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* an `application_secret`
```

> - consumer key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* a `consumer_key`
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Why?

Because, behind the scenes, the "OVHcloud Kubernetes database operator" is doing requests to OVHcloud APIs. 

In order to retrieve this necessary information, please follow [First steps with the OVHcloud APIs](https://docs.ovh.com/gb/en/api/first-steps-with-ovh-api/) tutorial.

Concretely, you have to generate these credentials via the [OVHcloud token generation page](https://api.ovh.com/createToken/?GET=/*&POST=/*&PUT=/*&DELETE=/*) with the following rights:

* GET: /*
* POST: /*
* PUT: /*
* DELETE: /*

When you have successfully generated your OVHcloud tokens, please keep them. You'll have to define them in the coming minutes ;-).

```

> ## Values

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Instructions 

The Kubernetes database operator is stored as an Helm chart in [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/ovhcom/public-cloud-databases-operator/tags), an OCI registry.

### Helm values

```

> Create a values.yaml to be injected in the helm chart 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first step is to create a `values.yaml` file with the following content:
```

Reviewer 2: Small typo:
The first step **is** to create...

Reviewer: thx fixed :)

> that will be created afterwards. Region is either: ovh-eu, ovh-ca or ovh-us.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```yaml
ovhCredentials:
  applicationKey: XXXX
  applicationSecret: XXXX
  consumerKey: XXXX
  region: XXXX # ovh-eu, ovh-ca or ovh-us

> namespace: XXXX # Your Kubernetes namespace

Reviewer: It's not a best practice to define the namespace in the Helm chart values.

Instead, you can specify `--namespace` directly in the `helm install` command line.

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> [!primary]
>
> Please replace `XXXX` with the credentials you obtained earlier.
> Note that the region value is either: `ovh-eu`, `ovh-ca` or `ovh-us`.

```

> ## Installation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Installation
```

> Use the kubernetes package manager [helm](https://helm.sh) and the values file you created to install the operator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install the Kubernetes operator, you can use [Helm](https://helm.sh), a package manager for Kubernetes, with the values file you created.
```

Reviewer 2: Maybe adding the link to our Helm tutorial would we nice, something like "Please read our Helm tutorial if you need help to install and us eHelm on OVHcloud Managed Kubernetes"

```bash

> helm install -f values.yaml public-cloud-databases-operator oci://registry-1.docker.io/ovhcom/public-cloud-databases-operator --version 3

Reviewer: Rather than reinventing the wheel and putting a chart Helm on Docker Hub, why not do like all other Kubernetes operators providers installed via Helm?

The idea is to create our own ovh Helm repository:
https://helm.sh/docs/topics/chart_repository/

Prometheus, Bitnami and so on, they have a Helm repo, and to add it it's simple:

```
helm repo add prometheus-community https://prometheus-community.github.io/helm-charts
helm repo update 
```

Here is an example of the source code on GitHub:
https://prometheus-community.github.io/helm-charts

We can thus do versioning, automate the creation of helm charts… :-)

Reviewer: Moreover the command with the OCI URI **is not working**,
and a best practice is to install the operator in a namespace, you can do this by adding the `--create-namespace` parameter:

```
helm install -f values.yaml public-cloud-databases-operator \
oci://registry-1.docker.io/ovhcom/public-cloud-databases-operator --version 1.0.0 \
--create-namespace --namespace databases-operator \
--generate-name
```

Since Helm >= 3.2 the `--create-namespace` parameter ask to Helm to create the given namespace if not present.

Reviewer: By the way, instead of asking the user to create a `values.yaml` file you can simply set the parameters in the helm install command line.

Example:

```
$ helm install prometheus-community/kube-prometheus-stack \
--create-namespace --namespace prometheus \
--generate-name \
--values /tmp/kube-prometheus-stack.values \
--set prometheus.service.type=LoadBalancer \
--set prometheus.prometheusSpec.serviceMonitorSelectorNilUsesHelmValues=false \
--set grafana.service.type=LoadBalancer \
--set grafana.adminpassword=myawesomepassword
```

Reviewer 2: This one is specially important to me. We should strive to make our open source operators as close as possible to community standards and good practices as possible. A great majority of open source projets use the *Helm chart in Helm repository* approach. It's the market standard, see the [Bitnami list of Helm charts](https://bitnami.com/stacks/helm). Why would we choose to publish in another way?

Specially when we are suggesting that to our own customers using our OVHcloud Managed Registry.

As @scraly said, it's not only the market standard, it also allows to manage the charts in a git repository, version them, and automate the process.

Reviewer 2: In most of the tutorials in our docs we are suggesting adding the parameters in the Helm command line instead of using the `values.yml` file option. 

It could be nice if we keep the same approach here for coherency reasons...

```

> That will create the operator, crd and secrets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

You should have a behavior like this:
<pre class="console"><code>$ helm install -f values.yaml public-cloud-databases-operator oci://registry-1.docker.io/ovhcom/public-cloud-databases-operator --version 1.0.0
TODO: put the result of the command here
</code></pre>

This command will create the operator, CRDs and secrets objects.
```

>  ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 
 You can verify the operator is correctly installed by checking the Deployments, CRDs and Secrets in the new Kubernetes namespace:

 ```bash
```

> kubectl get deploy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl get deploy -n databases-operator
```

NAME                                       READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
operator-public-cloud-databases-operator   0/1     1            0           11h

kubectl get crd services.clouddatabases.ovhcloud.net
NAME                                   CREATED AT
services.clouddatabases.ovhcloud.net   2023-03-07T19:32:37Z

> kubectl get secret ovh-credentials

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl get secret ovh-credentials -n databases-operator
```

NAME              TYPE                      DATA   AGE
ovh-credentials   kubernetes.io/storageos   4      9h
```

> ## Create Custom Resource

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create Custom Resource
```

> Create a custom resource object using this example file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, create a custom resource object.
To do that, create a `cr.yaml` file with the following content:

```

```yaml
 {
        "apiVersion": "clouddatabases.ovhcloud.net/v1alpha1",
        "kind": "services",
        "metadata": {
          "name": "XXXX",
          "namespace": "XXXX"
        },
        "spec": {
          "projectId": "XXXX",
          "serviceId": "XXXX",
          "labelSelector": # No label selector means apply on all nodes
            "matchLabels":
              "LABELNAME": "LABELVALUE"
        },
      }
```

> The field serviceId is optional. If not set, the operator will be run against all the services of your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The field `serviceId` is optional. If not set, the operator will be run against all the services of your project.
```

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Apply it to the cluster:

```bash
```

kubectl apply -f cr.yaml

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

You should have a behavior like this:

<pre class="console"><code>$ kubectl apply -f cr.yaml
TODO: put the user result here
</code></pre>

```

## Nodes Labels

> You can use kubernetes labeling in order to select specific nodes that you want the operator to be run against. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

You can use Kubernetes labeling in order to select specific Nodes that you want the operator to be run against. 
```

> The created CR and the node must have the same label and value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The created CR and the Node must have the same label and value.
```

```bash
kubectl label nodes NODENAME1 NODENAME2 ... LABELNAME=LABELVALUE

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

You should have a behavior like this:

<pre class="console"><code>$ kubectl label nodes arelnodename anotherrealnodename  areallabel=areallabelvalue
TODO: put the user result here
</code></pre>

```

# Related links
 

> [Github repository](https://github.com/ovh/public-cloud-databases-operator)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[GitHub repository](https://github.com/ovh/public-cloud-databases-operator)
```

> [Docker hub](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/ovhcom/public-cloud-databases-operator/general)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/ovhcom/public-cloud-databases-operator/general)
```
